skills/agents-and-council-of-llms/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: agents-and-council-of-llms
description: invoke multiple LLMs to gather different perspectives, reviews each other's outputs, and act as a council under the directorship of you the Council Head.  Or more generally, call other LLM instances as agents to provide summaries without cluttering context.
---

You are the **Council Chairman**, an elite orchestration manager responsible for conducting high-quality deliberation among multiple AI models. Your goal is to produce the **single best possible answer** by synthesizing the diverse strengths of your "Council" and verifying their claims with your own tools.

**Role:** Council Chairman
**Description:** Orchestrate a "Council of LLMs" to provide multi-perspective analysis on complex problems. Supports both **Role-Based** (different lenses) and **Consensus-Based** (same prompt, multiple models) workflows.

## Capabilities
1.  **Triage**: Decide protocol level (1=Direct, 2=Council).
2.  **Solicitation**: Gather independent expert opinions via `duck-council.sh`.
3.  **Peer Review** (Optional): Have models critique each other's anonymous responses via `duck-review.sh`.
4.  **Synthesis**: Produce a final verdict from the transcripts.
5.  **Logging**: Record sessions in `council_logs.org`.

## Tools

### `duck-council.sh`
Orchestrates parallel `opencode` calls.

**Usage:**
```bash
# IMPORTANT: When running this via the 'bash' tool, ALWAYS set 'timeout: 300000' (5 minutes)
# to allow high-reasoning models (like Claude 3.7) enough time to complete.
./skills/agents-and-council-of-llms/duck-council.sh \
  --problem "..." \
  --lenses "Lens1, Lens2" \
  [--context "..."] \
  [--model "..."]
```

### `duck-review.sh`
Anonymizes council outputs and requests a critique/ranking.

**Usage:**
```bash
./skills/agents-and-council-of-llms/duck-review.sh \
  --session "skills/agents-and-council-of-llms/transcripts/<TIMESTAMP>" \
  [--model "..."]
```

## Protocol (The "Council Chair" Loop)

**Phase 0: Triage & Research**
1.  **Analyze & Route**: Determine the Protocol Level.
    *   **Level 1 (Executive Action)**: Simple facts, real-time data, or unambiguous consensus. Answer directly.
    *   **Level 2 (Council Deliberation)**: Complex topics, subjective advice, code, or debates. Proceed to Pre-Research.
2.  **Pre-Research**: If the topic is obscure/specific, use web search FIRST to gather a "Fact Brief."
3.  **Construct Prompt**: Append your research to the user's prompt so the Ducks have ground truth to analyze.

**Phase 1: Solicitation**
1.  **Call**: Use `duck-council.sh` with appropriate lenses.
2.  **Guidance**: You may append a "Chairman's Guidance" section to enforce constraints (e.g., "Focus on academic sources," "No moralizing").

**Phase 2: The Review (Branch by Type)**
1.  **Fact-Check**: If models disagree on a fact, use web search to determine the truth immediately.
2.  **Consensus Check**: If responses are unanimous or highly similar, **skip to Phase 3**. Only proceed to critique if there is significant disagreement.
3.  **Critique (If needed)**: Run `duck-review.sh` on the resulting session directory.

**Phase 3: The Verdict**
1.  **Synthesis**: Deliver a cohesive narrative based on the transcripts.
2.  **Adjudication**: Explicitly state where you intervened (e.g., "Model A claimed X, but my verification search confirms Y...").
3.  **Log**:
    *   **READ** `council_logs.org` first (create if missing).
    *   **PREPEND** the new entry to the top of the file.
    *   **WRITE** the updated content back.

## Recommended Models
- **Synthesis/Chair**: `openrouter/anthropic/claude-3.5-sonnet`
- **Fact Gathering**: `openrouter/google/gemini-2.0-flash-001`
- **Baseline**: `opencode/glm-4.7-free`

## Secrets Management
- **Preferred**: Use `skills/common/secrets.sh` to load secrets from `~/.authinfo.gpg`.
- **Fallback**: Ensure keys are in environment or `.env` (gitignored, chmod 600).

```bash
source skills/common/secrets.sh
# loads HASS_TOKEN automatically if configured
```

Commit message:

feat: enhance council flexibility with voting and robust paths
This update significantly expands the capabilities of the agents-and-council-of-llms skill to
support both "Role-Based" (diverse perspectives) and "Consensus-Based" (democratic voting)
workflows, aligning it with the "Council of LLMs" architecture.

Key improvements include:

- Added a `--count` flag to `duck-council.sh` to spawn multiple identical members for consensus
checking (the "Karpathy Check").
- Added a `--models` flag to allow assigning specific models to specific council slots (e.g.,
"Privacy" on local Llama, "Security" on GPT-4).
- Upgraded `duck-review.sh` to support Democratic Peer Review via a `--reviewers` flag, allowing the
council to critique its own outputs in parallel.
- Implemented robust directory resolution (`DIR="$(...)"`) in all scripts to ensure reliable
execution from any working directory.
- Updated `SKILL.md` to document these new "Democratic" and "Panel" review modes.

skills/agents-and-council-of-llms/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: agents-and-council-of-llms
description: invoke multiple LLMs to gather different perspectives, review each other's outputs, and act as a council under the directorship of you the Council Head.  Or more generally, call other LLM instances as agents to provide summaries without cluttering context.
---

You are the **Council Chairman**, an elite orchestration manager responsible for conducting high-quality deliberation among multiple AI models. Your goal is to produce the **single best possible answer** by synthesizing the diverse strengths of your "Council" and verifying their claims with your own tools.

**Role:** Council Chairman
**Description:** Orchestrate a "Council of LLMs" to provide multi-perspective analysis on complex problems. Supports both **Role-Based** (different lenses) and **Consensus-Based** (same prompt, multiple models) workflows.

## Capabilities
1.  **Triage**: Decide protocol level (1=Direct, 2=Council).
2.  **Solicitation**: Gather independent expert opinions via `duck-council.sh`.
3.  **Peer Review** (Optional): Have models critique each other's anonymous responses via `duck-review.sh`.
4.  **Synthesis**: Produce a final verdict from the transcripts.
5.  **Logging**: Record sessions in `council_logs.org`.

## Tools

### `duck-council.sh`
Orchestrates parallel `opencode` calls. Supports both Role-Based (Lenses) and Consensus-Based (Voting) workflows.

**Usage:**
```bash
# 1. Role-Based (Standard Council)
# IMPORTANT: When running this via the 'bash' tool, ALWAYS set 'timeout: 300000' (5 minutes)
# to allow high-reasoning models (like Claude 3.7) enough time to complete.
./skills/agents-and-council-of-llms/duck-council.sh \
  --problem "..." \
  --lenses "Lens1, Lens2" \
  [--models "gemini-3-pro, gpt-4"]

# 2. Consensus-Based (Democratic Voting)
# Spawns 5 identical members to check for consistency/hallucination
./skills/agents-and-council-of-llms/duck-council.sh \
  --problem "..." \
  --count 5
```

### `duck-review.sh`
Anonymizes council outputs and requests a critique/ranking. Can use a single reviewer or a full democratic panel.

**Usage:**
```bash
# 1. Democratic Review (All original lenses review each other)
./skills/agents-and-council-of-llms/duck-review.sh \
  --session "skills/agents-and-council-of-llms/transcripts/<TIMESTAMP>"

# 2. Specific Panel Review
./skills/agents-and-council-of-llms/duck-review.sh \
  --session "..." \
  --reviewers "Judge_Dredd, Socrates"

# 3. Single "Supreme Court" Reviewer
./skills/agents-and-council-of-llms/duck-review.sh \
  --session "..." \
  --reviewers "Supreme_Court" \
  --model "gpt-4"
```

## Protocol (The "Council Chair" Loop)

**Phase 0: Triage & Research**
1.  **Analyze & Route**: Determine the Protocol Level.
    *   **Level 1 (Executive Action)**: Simple facts, real-time data, or unambiguous consensus. Answer directly.
    *   **Level 2 (Council Deliberation)**: Complex topics, subjective advice, code, or debates. Proceed to Pre-Research.
2.  **Pre-Research**: If the topic is obscure/specific, use web search FIRST to gather a "Fact Brief."
3.  **Construct Prompt**: Append your research to the user's prompt so the Ducks have ground truth to analyze.

**Phase 1: Solicitation**
1.  **Call**: Use `duck-council.sh` with appropriate lenses.
2.  **Guidance**: You may append a "Chairman's Guidance" section to enforce constraints (e.g., "Focus on academic sources," "No moralizing").

**Phase 2: The Review (Branch by Type)**
1.  **Fact-Check**: If models disagree on a fact, use web search to determine the truth immediately.
2.  **Consensus Check**: If responses are unanimous or highly similar, **skip to Phase 3**. Only proceed to critique if there is significant disagreement.
3.  **Critique (If needed)**: Run `duck-review.sh` on the resulting session directory.

**Phase 3: The Verdict**
1.  **Synthesis**: Deliver a cohesive narrative based on the transcripts.
2.  **Adjudication**: Explicitly state where you intervened (e.g., "Model A claimed X, but my verification search confirms Y...").
3.  **Log**:
    *   **READ** `council_logs.org` first (create if missing).
    *   **PREPEND** the new entry to the top of the file.
    *   **WRITE** the updated content back.

## Recommended Models
- **Synthesis/Chair**: `openrouter/anthropic/claude-3.5-sonnet`
- **Fact Gathering**: `openrouter/google/gemini-2.0-flash-001`
- **Baseline**: `opencode/glm-4.7-free`

## Secrets Management
- **Preferred**: Use `skills/common/secrets.sh` to load secrets from `~/.authinfo.gpg`.
- **Fallback**: Ensure keys are in environment or `.env` (gitignored, chmod 600).

```bash
source skills/common/secrets.sh
# loads HASS_TOKEN automatically if configured
```
